The number of drones you can fly simultaneously.,1
The maximum height you can fly AGL or above a taller building within a 400-foot radius.,400 feet
Fastest you can fly.,100 MPH/87 Knots
The lightest drone that must be registered.,0.55 lbs
Heaviest legal drone,55 lbs
Maximum blood alcohol level.,0
The time that must pass since you have had alcohol.,8 hours
The maximum time you can take to file an FAA accident report.,10 days.
The time you have to notify the FAA if you move.,30 days
The lead time required when requesting an FAA waiver,90 days
Time that must pass after a final narcotics conviction.,1 year.
The youngest person who can register a drone.,13 years old.
How long this certification is good for.,24 months.
The twilight time before sunrise or after sunset when you can still fly.,30 minutes.
The distance your anti-collision lights must be visible from when flying during twilight. Also the minimum visibility you must have while flying.,3 statute miles.
Minimum number of feet below a cloud you must fly.,500 feet.
Minimum number of feet horizontally from a cloud you must fly.,2,000 feet.
The repair cost of accident damage that requires you to report an accident to the FAA,$500
The "serious injury" AIS level that requires you to file an accident report.,Level 3.
The MULTICOM frequency for self-announce procedures.,122
The distance you should operate from a tower to avoid hitting guy wires.,2000 feet.
Occurs when the wing exceeds its critical angle of attack.,Stalls
Supposed to be defined in the Pilot's Operating Handbook or UAS Flight Manual, but those don't exist for drones.,Center of Gravity (CG) Limits.
Determines when the craft stalls. This doesn't change if the vehicle weight changes.,Angle of attack
Increases during any maneuver.,Load Factor
This is the answer to any question about who is responsible.,Remote PIC.
Aircraft always turn left when circling a runway, because drivers sit on the left side of the car in the US, and pilots sit on the left of the plane, too. It's easier for them to look out the left window to see the tower.,Left
You're supposed to have one, even though most drones can't be user-repaired and don't provide a schedule.,Maintenance schedule.
Helps to prevent an accident chain.,Risk Management.
Taking risks to impress others,Machismo
Doing something without thinking about it.,Impulsivity.
Thinking accidents won't happen to you.,Invulnerability.
What's the use? They don't control their destiny.,Resignation
Nobody can tell me what to do.,Anti-authority
It's how you manage your "crew" and you
should integrate it into all phases of the operation.,Crew Resource Management (CRM)
That's how you should scan for traffic-let your eyes rest in different areas for a while, rather than continuously scanning.,Systematically focus on different segments of the sky for short intervals.
is like climbing a ladder (north-south),Latitude
is the long way around the planet (the Earth is fat cuz it spins).,Longitude
Contains the weather forecast.,Standard briefing
is weather,AWOS
is for pilots to talk to each other when there's no tower.,CTAF
is a base station that broadcasts to pilots when there's no tower.,UNICOM
is used as the CTAF when there's no CTAF (122.9 or 122.95).,MULTICOM
Warm air on top of cold air. Fog, haze, low clouds, poor visibility, but smooth air.,Temperature inversion
Turbulence (because the air is unstable), showery precipitation.,Moist, unstable air
Smooth air, poor visibility, and steady (not showery) precipitation (because stable air is usually humid).,Stable air
Intermittent precipitation.,Unstable air.
Stable,Cool + Dry
Unstable,Hot + Humid
Just means "high altitude". Air is thinner, so lift is decreased.,High density altitude.
Means a rain cloud,nimbus
Wind is 180 degrees at 4 knots. The first three digits (180) are the
compass heading (180). The last two #s are the wind speed (04).,18004KT
Compass headings are always relative to true North in print, not magnetic North.
If it's in print, it must be true.,
Sky is overcast at 700 feet. Remember, #s are always in hundreds.,OVC007
Visibility is 1 1⁄2 statute miles (SM),1 1/2SM
BLPY,Blowing spray
BR,Mist
DS,Dust Storm
DU,Widespread Dust
DZ,Drizzle
FC,Funnel Cloud
+FC,Tornado/Water Spout
FG,Fog
FU,Smoke
GR,Hail
GS,Small Hail/Snow Pellets
HZ,Haze
IC,Ice Crystals
PL,Ice Pellets
PO,Dust/Sand Whirls
RA,Rain
SA,Sand
SG,Snow Grains
SN,Snow
SQ,Squall
SS,Sandstorm
UP,Unknown Precipitation
VA,Volcanic Ash
+,heavy
-,light
(Common Traffic Advisory Frequency) is marked with a C,CTAF
is for the weather,AWOS
mark VR checkpoints which mean more planes might be there.,Red flags
Measure minutes between latitude and longitude degrees. Each tick is one minute. Bigger ticks mark 5 minutes.,Tick marks.
Must get ATC (Air Traffic Control) authorization for class B, C, and D.,
From 18,000 feet to 60,000 feet, all over the US.,Class A airspace
Surrounding major airports, 0-10,000 feet. Consists of multiple layers,
like an upside-down wedding cake.,Class B airspace
Surrounding airports with a control tower, radar, and over a specific amount of traffic. Usually 5 NM (nautical mile) radius from 0-4,000 feet, and a 10 NM radius from 1,200-4,000 feet.,Class C airspace
Surrounding airports with a control tower. 0-2,500 feet, no specific radius, just shaped around flight patterns. Outside control tower hours, Class D airspace is Class G.,Class D airspace
Usually it starts at 1,200 feet and goes up to 18,000 feet.,Class E airspace
Uncontrolled airspace (below class E airspace).,Class G airspace
Places like Camp David and the White House.,Prohibited Areas (P-###)
It's not prohibited, but if you fly here, it could be dangerous. The government might be testing artillery or missiles or UFOs.,Restricted Areas (R-###)
Domestic and international waters, from NM outward from the US coast. It's cool to fly there it's just not really managed by the US.,Warning Areas (W-###)
MOAs consist of airspace with defined limits established for the purpose of separating certain military training activities from IFR traffic. Whenever an MOA is being used, nonparticipating IFR traffic may be cleared through an MOA if IFR separation can be provided by ATC. Otherwise, ATC reroutes or restricts nonparticipating IFR traffic.,Military Operations Areas (MOAs)
Depicted on aeronautical charts with an "A" followed by a number (e.g., A-
211) to inform nonparticipating pilots of areas that may contain a high volume of pilot training or an unusual type of aerial activity. Think skydiving training facility,Alert Areas
Numbers (like 41/12) are written in 100s of feet above sea level (MSL). So, 41/12 means 4100 ft, 1200 ft. SFC = Surface,
latitude,north and south
longitude,east to west
Advisory Circulars,AC
Aeronautical Decision Making,ADM
Aircraft Flight Manual,AFM
Above Ground Level,AGL
Aeronautical information manual,AIM
Abbreviated Injury Scale,AIS
Above Sea Level,ASL
Automated Surface
Observing System (monitors the
weather),ASOS
Air Traffic Control,ATC
Air Traffic Control Tower,ATCT
Automatic Terminal Information System (a loop of useful information broadcast over the radio near an airport),ATIS
Aviation Weather Center,AWC
Automated Weather
Observing System,AWOS
Code of Federal Regulations,CFR
Center of Gravity,CG
Certificate of Waiver,CoW
Crew Resource Management,CRM
Control Station (your remote
control),CS
Common Traffic Advisory
Frequency,CTAF
Federal Aviation
Administration,FAA
Flight Data Center,FDC
Department of Defense Flight
Information Publication,FLIP
Flight Level,FL
Flight Service Station.
Provides pilot briefings, enroute communications, search-and-rescue services, help lost aircraft, etc.,FSS
Flight Termination Point,FTP
Instrument Flight Rules,IFR
Instrument Landing System,ILS
Letter of Agreement,LOA
Aviation Routine Weather
Reports,METAR
Military Operations Area,MOA
Mean Sea Level,MSL
Military Training Routes,MTR
Not an acronym, just
the radio frequency (122.9) we use
to announce aircraft when there's no ATC.,MULTICOM
National Airspace System,NAS
Nautical Miles,NM
Notice to Airman,NOTAM
Notice to Airman Publication,NTAP
National Transportation
Safety Board,NTSB
National Weather Service,NWS
Overcast (from METAR),OVC
Pilot In Control. You, flying the
drone.,PIC
Pilot Operating Handbook,POH
Rain,RA
Surface,SFC
Secure Identification Display
Area. The part of the airport where
you need to be wearing a badge.,SIDA
Statute Miles,SM
Safety Management System,SMS
Small Unmanned Aircraft
Systems (aka., drone, UA, UAS),sUAS
Terminal Aerodrome Forecast,TAF
Temporary Flight Restriction,TFR
Unmanned Aircraft (aka., drone,
sUAS, UAS),UA
Unmanned Aircraft System
(aka., drone, sUAS, UA),UAS
Not an acronym:
Universal Communications. A radio broadcast that tells you about non- flight services, such as fuel, taxis, and car rentals.,UNICOM
Visual Flight Rules,VFR
Visual Line-of-Sight,VLOS
Visual Observer,VO
Very High Frequency
Omnidirectional Range. They're
navigation beacons.,VOR
Visual Flight Rules Military
Training Routes,VR
A,Alpha
B,Bravo
C,Charlie
D,Delta
E,Echo
F,Foxtrot
G,Golf
H,Hotel
I,India
J,Juliett
K,Kilo
L,Lima
M,Mike
N,November
O,Oscar
P,Papa
Q,Quebec
R,Romeo
S,Seirra
T,Tango
U,Uniform
V,Victor
W,Whisky
X,Xray
Y,Yankee
Z,Zulu
Small tick marks,1 minute
medium tick marks,5 minutes
large tick marks,10 minutes
KGGG,K then three letter airport code
161753Z,16 day of the month 1753 the time of day and Z-Zulu
AUTO,automatic made report by a weather station
14021G26KT,140 degrees 21 knots gusting to 26 knots
VRB05KT,Variable winds at 5 knots
+TSRA BR,heavy thunderstorm and rain showers and mist
BKN008,Broken clouds at 800 feet
OVC012CB,overcast clouds at 1,200 feet Cumulus clouds
18/17,18 degrees celsius and dew point is 17 degrees celsius
P6SM,P if it is 6 or more and indicates that you have great visibility
PROB30,30% chance
Less than 1/8 (Clear),SKC,CLR,FEW
1/8-2/8 (Few),FEW
3/8-4/8 (Scattered),SCT
5/8-7/8 (Broken),BKN
8/8 or (Overcast),OVC
Low density altitude,have higher density of air
(this is good)
High density altitude,have lower density of air 
(this is bad)
Fronts,divide weather patterns
Wind shear,any altitude
Structural icing,rain or cloud 0 degrees celsius or colder
0 degrees,North
90 degrees,East
180 degrees,South
270 degrees,West
TS(thunderstorm) Life Cycle,1. Cumulus 
2. Mature
3. Dissipating
To check NOTAM go to,1800WXBrief.com
Nimbus,Big heavy clouds
Stratus,High whispy clouds
Humidity,Less visibility more efficient